Zach Urrutia 
11/6/2020
Lab 2 summary Assignment

This assignment is to redo Lab 02 but to do the commands in our CentOS Virtual
Machine.


	The first command that Lab02 has us perform is the ls command. The ls command
is used to list the directories and files in your current working directory
(if no path is specified with the ls command). When entered into the CentOS
virtual machine, the commands executes in the same manner that it does in 
Ubuntu. (Note: I am performing the ls command inside my /home/zach/repos/cis246lab1
directory)

	The optional parameter -l to the ls command also perform the same in CentOS as 
it does in Ubuntu. The -l paramter still shows the permissions of the files 
along with they number of hardlinks, the user and group owners of the file, the
size of the file, and the date the was last modified. Note, all ls parameters
output the same way in CentOS as they do in Ubuntu. 

	On page 2.1.17 of Lab02, the lab demonstrates the touch command to create files
inside of directories. As expected, the touch command is exactly the same in 
CentOS. The command to remove created files, rm, is also the same in CentOS.

	The next command Lab02 demonstrates is the uname command. When ran in CentOS 
without any parameters, the command outputs "Linux" just as it does in Ubuntu.
When combined with the -n parameter, the command uname -n displays the host 
name of the Linux machine I am on which in this case is CentOS246. Note, all
parameters to the uname command perform the same way in CentOS as they do in
Ubuntu. 

	The next command which is the copy command, cp, does work the same way in CentOS
as it does in Ubuntu. The command structure is the same in that the cp command
requires the name of the file you want to copy followed by the destination 
you want to copy the file to. If you want to copy it to a destination while 
creating a new directory to copy it to, type the name of the directory after 
the desination path. For example if I want to copy the file test.txt to a new
directory called NewDirectory in my home user directory the command would look like: 
cp test.text /home/zach NewDirectory. This works in CentOS the same way it does
in Ubuntu.

	On page 2.1.21, Lab02 explains how to create an alias in Ubuntu by performing
alias name=command format. I tested this command in CentOS by creating a new
alias by the name print and made it equal to the echo command. The command looked
like this: alias print=echo. When I typed the command "print Hello", it printed
to the screen. For this specific example I actually was not sure if print was
an actual command in Linux. So I deleted the alias by using the unalias print
command.
 
	I then performed the command which print. The output informed me that print was
infact not found in bin directories that house local commands. For the heck of
it I recreated the echo alias print and reran the which print command. The 
output of this command now shows that the print command is housed in the /bin
directory. This was a fun little side thing to see for myself. Long story short
you can create an alias in CentOS as you do in Ubuntu.

  
	The type command still functions the same in CentOS as it does in
Ubuntu by telling you what the file is.  
	
	The man command does still work in CentOS for example getting help 
on the pwd command you would type man ls. However, the way you can jump to 
specific sections of a manual page in Ubuntu, you cannot seem to do in CentOS.
For example in Ubuntu I can specify that I want to look at section 5 of the man
page for the passwd command, in one command. To do this I would type man 5 passwd.
In CentOS, the output of this very command displays " No manual entery for passwd
in section 5" whereasin the Ubuntu terminal of Lab02, I get the section 5 output
of the command passwd.

It was interesting to see that most of the commands in Lab 02 module work the same
in CentOS as they do in Ubuntu. I did expect that since it is still the same 
Linux/GNU language, but different flavors. It is nice that although a different
flavor of Linux, Ubuntu commands still operate similiar in CentOS (atleat for 
the commands in Lab 02).


  
